[Music]
the army ant
this may look like a ball of a million
individuals
but make no mistake the colony
acts as one
[Music]
a super organism with a sensory system
of
two million antennae
a skeleton made from the living bodies
of workers
a defense system of soldier ants
ready to act at any sign of danger
a digestive system processing piles of
food
deep inside
[Music]
even a coordinated system for dealing
with all the waste
these are insects that by working
together transcend
individual size
[Music]
the colony can search the entire jungle
and flush out its wildlife
[Music]
each day it sends out a silent probe
into the forest
in quest of food
[Music]
it doesn't use scouts like other ants
instead a vast search party pushes into
virgin territory
seeking out the signs of anything alive
they spread out along a 10 meter front
sweeping across the forest floor
[Music]
to find prey the ants must first touch
it
the iron is that this the most
successful hide-and-seek player in the
forest
is almost completely blind
it distinguishes the living only by
their movement
as long as an animal remains still it is
safe
but the slightest twitch will give it
away
[Music]
within seconds the prey is pinned down
within minutes it's torn apart at its
joints
[Music]
the more the prey struggles the more the
ants engage
[Music]
right across the raid front prey of all
sizes are driven from their hiding
places
even wasps must abandon their homes when
the ants arrive
[Music]
everything alive in the path of the
raiders
overwhelmed by sheer
numbers even when more sea lions arrive
they can't seem to break down the
sardines coordinated defenses
[Music]
with a shoal this big the sea lions need
to isolate a smaller more manageable
group of fish
[Music]
but with so few predators the fish still
have the advantage
[Music]
[Applause]
all the sea lions can do is keep the
sardines at the surface
and wait for others to join them
[Music]
tuna their arrival
changes everything
[Music]
[Applause]
tuna attack from below cutting off the
sardines escape
route down to deeper water
[Applause]
[Music]
next to appear sheer waters
excellent flyers but also surprisingly
agile
underwater
with so many predators attacking from
all sides
the advantage starts to shift away from
the sardines
[Music]
as the fish pack ever tighter their
showing strategy now makes it easier
for the hunters
[Music]
[Applause]
copper sharks they've scented blood
in the water
[Music]
surprisingly perhaps the predators never
attack one another
they work together to corral the ball of
fish
taking turns to grab a mouthful
[Applause]
common dolphins
as the shell gets ever smaller each
sardine scrambles desperately to hide in
the middle
but now there's no escape
[Applause]
[Music]
the buddha's whale finishes off the
feast
tons of sardines devoured in less than
an
hour hunting is only possible
for three hours around low tide when the
mud banks are exposed
razor-sharp oysters cover much of the
shore
beaching here could be lethal
the hunters need to find a stretch of
shoreline with just the right slope
to level and the dolphins risk stranding
too steep and they can't force their
prey from the water
working as a team the dolphins surround
the fish
driving them towards the shore
attacking in perfect synchrony the
dolphins create a bow
[Music]
wave
it carries their prey onto the muddy
[Music]
banks
other fish eaters profit from their
daring
herons and gulls follow every hunt
to get to the fish first the dolphins
drive themselves
high up the bank but if they go too far
they risk stranding
[Music]
to prevent fish escaping between them
the dolphins all
beats themselves on the same side
always the right
but this has a cost each time they grab
a fish
they also take in a mouthful of mud
the grit gradually wears down their
teeth
but on one side only
in time these teeth get so worn down
that
older dolphins can no longer hunt like
this and must find
other ways to catch fish
to help her in her quest she's equipped
with three
super powers
first an amazing approach to getting
about
[Music]
porsche is a jumping spider
able to leap up to 50 times her own body
length
[Music]
nowhere seems beyond her reach
next a second superpower superb eyesight
[Music]
essential if she's to distinguish her
prey
in all this clutter
because her prey doesn't stray
porsche is a spider eating spider
this raises a few problems her lunch
is three times her size
[Music]
packed with venom
and surrounded by a sticky trap
mission impossible not at all
because of her third super power
porsche is a genius
she can map her world in three
dimensions
[Music]
and formulate a plan of attack
she can have an idea
[Music]
the web builder is blind
it won't have a clue that she's coming
[Music]
right on target and safely behind those
fangs
but a mind as active as porsches can
always do
with more brain food
here there's no anchor point for the
abseil
but porsche has another idea
instead of going to the spider
[Music]
she will bring the spider to her
she plucks the strands to imitate
struggling prey
[Music]
drawing the spider in
to its death
[Music]
leopards are the most versatile of all
the big cats
adept at finding cover in the most
unpromising places
the steep walls of the gully are now her
cover
for an ambush
the male puku is close enough but he's
too big to tackle
[Music]
she needs to slip past him without being
seen
if he spots her he'll blow her cover
[Music]
slowly does it
to succeed here she needs to find prey
grazing
close to the edge or better still
in the gully itself
[Music]
frustration
success would have staved off hunger for
a week
but while there's prey around there's
hope
peaking over the top is a risk but it's
the quickest way to find a new target
[Music]
so
uh
[Applause]
a burst of speed of 65 kilometers an
hour
and it's all over in less than six
seconds
except it isn't
dazed and disorientated the impala makes
a miraculous escape
[Music]
[Applause]
you